.TH WT 1 "2026-06-28" "wt 0.6.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
wt \- git worktree manager powered by fzf
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wt
.RI [ branch " [" start-point ]]
.br
.B wt
.B pr
.I number
.br
.B wt
.B clean
.RB [ \-\-prune ]
.RB [ \-\-yes ]
.br
.B wt
.B \-d
.I branch
.br
.B wt
.B \-l
.br
.B wt
.B init
.I shell
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B wt
is a command-line tool for managing git worktrees with an interactive
fuzzy finder interface provided by
.BR fzf (1).
It lets you quickly list, switch to, create, or remove worktrees without
remembering paths or typing long git commands.
.PP
With no arguments,
.B wt
launches
.B fzf
to fuzzy-pick from existing worktrees.
Each row is marked with
.B *
for the worktree you are currently in,
.B !
if it has uncommitted changes, and
.RB ↑ N / ↓ N
for commits ahead of / behind its upstream.
The preview pane shows the working-tree status and the last 10 commits for the
highlighted worktree.
From the picker you can also press
.B Ctrl-N
to create a worktree named by the text you have typed.
.PP
With a
.I branch
argument,
.B wt
switches to the worktree for that branch, creating it if it doesn't exist.
When a new branch is created, it starts at
.I start-point
(a commit, branch, or tag) if given, otherwise at the current HEAD.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.BI "pr " number
Fetch GitHub pull request
.I number
.RI ( refs/pull/ number /head )
from the
.B origin
remote (or the first configured remote) into a local branch and check it
out in a worktree.
If
.BR gh (1)
is installed, the worktree is named after the pull request's head branch;
otherwise it falls back to
.IR pr- number .
.TP
.B clean
Find worktrees whose branch is fully merged into the default branch or
whose upstream branch has been deleted
.RB ( [gone] ),
and offer them for removal in an
.B fzf
multi-select list
.RB ( Tab
to mark,
.B Enter
to remove).
Without
.BR fzf ,
the candidates are printed for removal with
.BR "wt \-d" .
With
.BR \-\-prune ,
.B "git fetch \-\-all \-\-prune"
is run first so branches whose upstream was deleted on the remote are
detected.
With
.B \-\-yes
(alias
.BR \-\-all ),
every candidate is removed without the interactive prompt — useful in
scripts.
.TP
.BI "init " shell
Print shell integration code for
.IR bash ,
.IR zsh ,
or
.IR fish .
The generated code defines a wrapper function and tab completions.
See
.B SHELL INTEGRATION
below.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-d " branch"
Remove the worktree for
.IR branch .
The local branch is also deleted if it is fully merged; otherwise it is
kept and a hint to force-delete it is printed.
Removal forces past untracked files (such as build artifacts created by
.B postCreate
hooks) but refuses if tracked files have uncommitted changes.
.TP
.B \-l
List all worktrees with their branch names and paths, marking the current
worktree
.RB ( * ),
ones with uncommitted changes
.RB ( ! ),
and how far each branch is ahead of / behind its upstream.
.TP
.B \-h
Show a brief help message and exit.
.TP
.B \-v
Show the version number and exit.
.SH SHELL INTEGRATION
A subprocess cannot change the parent shell's working directory.
The
.B init
command outputs a small shell function that wraps
.B wt
and automatically
.BR cd (1)s
into the selected worktree path.
It also provides tab completions for branches, worktrees, and options.
.PP
Add one of the following to your shell startup file:
.PP
.RS
.nf
# zsh (~/.zshrc)
eval "$(wt init zsh)"

# bash (~/.bashrc)
eval "$(wt init bash)"

# fish (~/.config/fish/config.fish)
wt init fish | source
.fi
.RE
.SH HOOKS
If a
.B .wtconfig
file exists at the root of the primary worktree, its directives run whenever
.B wt
creates a
.I new
worktree (including via
.BR "wt pr" ).
Each line has the form
.IR key " = " value ;
blank lines and lines beginning with
.B #
are ignored.
The
.B copy
,
.B link
, and
.B postCreate
keys below run as hooks and may each appear multiple times, in the order
listed. A
.B baseDir
key may also appear (once) to set where this repo's worktrees are created;
relative paths resolve against the repo root and a leading
.B ~
expands to the home directory.
.B WT_BASE_DIR
overrides it.
.TP
.BI "copy " path
Copy
.I path
from the primary worktree into the new worktree.
.TP
.BI "link " path
Symlink
.I path
in the new worktree to the copy in the primary worktree.
.TP
.BI "postCreate " command
Run
.I command
with the new worktree as the working directory. The environment variables
.BR WT_BRANCH ,
.BR WT_PATH ,
and
.B WT_SOURCE
are available to the command.
.PP
Sources for
.B copy
and
.B link
that do not exist are skipped with a notice. All hook output is written to
standard error. Set
.B WT_NO_HOOKS
to skip hooks for a single invocation.
.SH KEYBOARD SHORTCUTS
When using the interactive
.B fzf
picker:
.TP
.B Enter
Select the highlighted worktree (prints its path).
.TP
.B Ctrl-N
Create (or switch to) a worktree named by the typed query.
.TP
.B "Ctrl-D, Del"
Delete the highlighted worktree.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B WT_BASE_DIR
Parent directory where new worktrees are created.
When not set,
.B wt
uses the
.B baseDir
key from
.B .wtconfig
if present, otherwise
.IR <repo>/_worktrees/ .
Branch names containing slashes (e.g.
.IR rec/my-branch )
are flattened to a single directory (e.g.
.IR _worktrees/rec-my-branch );
the branch name itself is preserved.
.TP
.B WT_NO_HOOKS
When set to any value, skip the
.B .wtconfig
.RB ( copy / link / postCreate )
hooks for the current invocation.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Successful operation, or the user cancelled the fzf picker.
.TP
.B 1
An error occurred (not a git repository, branch not found, etc.).
.SH EXAMPLES
Launch the interactive picker:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ wt
.fi
.RE
.PP
Switch to (or create) a worktree for branch
.IR feature/login :
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ wt feature/login
.fi
.RE
.PP
Create a worktree for a new branch
.I hotfix
starting from
.IR main :
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ wt hotfix main
.fi
.RE
.PP
Check out GitHub pull request #123 in a worktree:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ wt pr 123
.fi
.RE
.PP
Remove all merged or stale worktrees interactively:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ wt clean
.fi
.RE
.PP
Remove the worktree for branch
.IR feature/login :
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ wt -d feature/login
.fi
.RE
.PP
List all worktrees:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ wt -l
*  main                           /home/user/src/myproject
   feature/login ↑2              /home/user/src/feature/login
.fi
.RE
.PP
Use a custom base directory for worktrees:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ export WT_BASE_DIR=~/worktrees
$ wt feature/signup
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR git-worktree (1),
.BR fzf (1),
.BR git (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Rodrigo Espinosa Curbelo
.SH LICENSE
MIT License. See the LICENSE file in the source distribution.
